ThermoDrift™

Use cases for Thermodrift:

USE CASE 1: A scientist’s metagenomic samples from Yellowstone NP have become mixed up upon arrival back to their lab. These samples come from a cold high elevation tundra, a low-lying warm grassland, and a thermal spring environment. The researcher wants to use ThermoDrift to recover the identities of the various samples. The researcher first sequences various samples, and then uses the orfipy tool to predict ORFs for organisms in the sample. Then they compile these ORFs into DNA fasta files and then translate them into protein fasta files. Finally they upload their fasta files into ThermoDrift to classify the thermostability of the proteins encoded in the metagenomics samples and thus uncover the source environment of each metagenomic sample.


USE CASE 2: A graduate student at the UW IPD wants to design a highly thermostable protein nanoparticle, but the student is unsure whether the institute’s current set of validated components meets their design specifications. The student wants to design a new set of de novo components that are highly thermostable.
The student plans to take all current components and feed them into ThermoDrift to predict thermostability parameters. Based off of ThermoDrift predictions, the student plans to select those components predicted with the greatest thermostability and analyze the sequence similarity and apply these patterns to design additional components with similar sequence identity but variations in secondary structure.


USE CASE 3: Biochemist with a love for machine learning is interested in seeing if he can improve the accuracy of ThermoDrift's predictions by incorporating 3D structures as an input to the model. To do this the researcher takes the training set of sequences and folds them using Alphafold or Rosetta fold and selects all structures which the network is confident in folding. With this set of folded proteins from the three different classes, the researcher adds another CNN which will read in the coordinates of the structure and define a latent space. On the backend the researcher implements an attention module which reads in the latent space generated by the sequence and structure CNNs and then predicts an class for the paired sequence and structure. With the new code pushed to the model, people are now able to predict which environment the protein will classify into given a structure or sequence alone.
